Arthur Weasley, I daresay?”
It was a tense moment. Mr. Weasley and Mr. Malfoy looked at each other
and Harry vividly recalled the last time they had come face-to-face: It had
been in Flourish and Blotts bookshop, and they had had a fight. Mr. Malfoy’s
cold gray eyes swept over Mr. Weasley, and then up and down the row.
“Good lord, Arthur,” he said softly. “What did you have to sell to get seats
in the Top Box? Surely your house wouldn’t have fetched this much?”
Fudge, who wasn’t listening, said, “Lucius has just given a very generous
contribution to St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries,
Arthur. He’s here as my guest.”
“How — how nice,” said Mr. Weasley, with a very strained smile.
Mr. Malfoy’s eyes had returned to Hermione, who went slightly pink, but
stared determinedly back at him. Harry knew exactly what was making Mr.
Malfoy’s lip curl like that. The Malfoys prided themselves on being
purebloods; in other words, they considered anyone of Muggle descent, like
Hermione, second-class. However, under the gaze of the Minister of Magic,
Mr. Malfoy didn’t dare say anything. He nodded sneeringly to Mr. Weasley
and continued down the line to his seats. Draco shot Harry, Ron, and
Hermione one contemptuous look, then settled himself between his mother
and father.
“Slimy gits,” Ron muttered as he, Harry, and Hermione turned to face the
field again. Next moment, Ludo Bagman charged into the box.
“Everyone ready?” he said, his round face gleaming like a great, excited
Edam. “Minister — ready to go?”
“Ready when you are, Ludo,” said Fudge comfortably.
Ludo whipped out his wand, directed it at his own throat, and said
“Sonorus!” and then spoke over the roar of sound that was now filling the
packed stadium; his voice echoed over them, booming into every corner of
the stands.
“Ladies and gentlemen . . . welcome! Welcome to the final of the four
hundred and twenty-second Quidditch World Cup!”
The spectators screamed and clapped. Thousands of flags waved, adding
their discordant national anthems to the racket. The huge blackboard opposite
them was wiped clear of its last message (Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans —
A Risk with Every Mouthful!) and now showed BULGARIA: 0, IRELAND: 0.
“And now, without further ado, allow me to introduce . . . the Bulgarian
National Team Mascots!”
The right-hand side of the stands, which was a solid block of scarlet, roared
its approval.
“I wonder what they’ve brought,” said Mr. Weasley, leaning forward in his
seat. “Aaah!” He suddenly whipped off his glasses and polished them
hurriedly on his robes. “Veela!”
“What are veel — ?”
But a hundred veela were now gliding out onto the field, and Harry’s
question was answered for him. Veela were women . . . the most beautiful
women Harry had ever seen . . . except that they weren’t — they couldn’t be
— human. This puzzled Harry for a moment while he tried to guess what
exactly they could be; what could make their skin shine moon-bright like that,
or their white-gold hair fan out behind them without wind . . . but then the
music started, and Harry stopped worrying about them not being human — in
fact, he stopped worrying about anything at all.
The veela had started to dance, and Harry’s mind had gone completely and
blissfully blank. All that mattered in the world was that he kept watching the
veela, because if they stopped dancing, terrible things would happen. . . .
And as the veela danced faster and faster, wild, half-formed thoughts
started chasing through Harry’s dazed mind. He wanted to do something very
impressive, right now. Jumping from the box into the stadium seemed a good
idea . . . but would it be good enough?
“Harry, what are you doing?” said Hermione’s voice from a long way off.
The music stopped. Harry blinked. He was standing up, and one of his legs
was resting on the wall of the box. Next to him, Ron was frozen in an attitude
that looked as though he were about to dive from a springboard.
Angry yells were filling the stadium. The crowd didn’t want the veela to
go. Harry was with them; he would, of course, be supporting Bulgaria, and he
wondered vaguely why he had a large green shamrock pinned to his chest.
Ron, meanwhile, was absentmindedly shredding the shamrocks on his hat.
Mr. Weasley, smiling slightly, leaned over to Ron and tugged the hat out of
his hands.
“You’ll be wanting that,” he said, “once Ireland have had their say.”
“Huh?” said Ron, staring openmouthed at the veela, who had now lined up
along one side of the field.
Hermione made a loud tutting noise. She reached up and pulled Harry back
into his seat. “Honestly!” she said.
“And now,” roared Ludo Bagman’s voice, “kindly put your wands in the
air . . . for the Irish National Team Mascots!”
Next moment, what seemed to be a great green-and-gold comet came
zooming into the stadium. It did one circuit of the stadium, then split into two
smaller comets, each hurtling toward the goalposts. A rainbow arced suddenly
across the field, connecting the two balls of light. The crowd oooohed and
aaaaahed, as though at a fireworks display. Now the rainbow faded and the
balls of light reunited and merged; they had formed a great shimmering
shamrock, which rose up into the sky and began to soar over the stands.
Something like golden rain seemed to be falling from it —
“Excellent!” yelled Ron as the shamrock soared over them, and heavy gold
coins rained from it, bouncing off their heads and seats. Squinting up at the
shamrock, Harry realized that it was actually comprised of thousands of tiny
little bearded men with red vests, each carrying a minute lamp of gold or
green.
“Leprechauns!” said Mr. Weasley over the tumultuous applause of the
crowd, many of whom were still fighting and rummaging around under their
chairs to retrieve the gold.
“There you go,” Ron yelled happily, stuffing a fistful of gold coins into
Harry’s hand, “for the Omnioculars! Now you’ve got to buy me a Christmas
present, ha!”
The great shamrock dissolved, the leprechauns drifted down onto the field
on the opposite side from the veela, and settled themselves cross-legged to
watch the match.
“And now, ladies and gentlemen, kindly welcome — the Bulgarian
National Quidditch Team! I give you — Dimitrov!”
A scarlet-clad figure on a broomstick, moving so fast it was blurred, shot
out onto the field from an entrance far below, to wild applause from the
Bulgarian supporters.
“Ivanova!”
A second scarlet-robed player zoomed out.
“Zograf! Levski! Vulchanov! Volkov! Aaaaaaand — Krum!”
“That’s him, that’s him!” yelled Ron, following Krum with his
Omnioculars. Harry quickly focused his own.
Viktor Krum was thin, dark, and sallow-skinned, with a large curved nose
and thick black eyebrows. He looked like an overgrown bird of prey. It was
hard to believe he was only eighteen.
“And now, please greet — the Irish National Quidditch Team!” yelled
Bagman. “Presenting — Connolly! Ryan! Troy! Mullet! Moran! Quigley!
Aaaaaand — Lynch!”
Seven green blurs swept onto the field; Harry spun a small dial on the side
of his Omnioculars and slowed the players down enough to read the word
“Firebolt” on each of their brooms and see their names, embroidered in silver,
upon their backs.
“And here, all the way from Egypt, our referee, acclaimed Chairwizard of
the International Association of Quidditch, Hassan Mostafa!”
A small and skinny wizard, completely bald but with a mustache to rival
Uncle Vernon’s, wearing robes of pure gold to match the stadium, strode out
onto the field. A silver whistle was protruding from under the mustache, and
he was carrying a large wooden crate under one arm, his broomstick under the
other. Harry spun the speed dial on his Omnioculars back to normal, watching
closely as Mostafa mounted his broomstick and kicked the crate open — four
balls burst into the air: the scarlet Quaffle, the two black Bludgers, and (Harry
saw it for the briefest moment, before it sped out of sight) the minuscule,
winged Golden Snitch. With a sharp blast on his whistle, Mostafa shot into
the air after the balls.
“Theeeeeeeey’re OFF!” screamed Bagman. “And it’s Mullet! Troy! Moran!
Dimitrov! Back to Mullet! Troy! Levski! Moran!”
It was Quidditch as Harry had never seen it played before. He was pressing
his Omnioculars so hard to his glasses that they were cutting into the bridge
of his nose. The speed of the players was incredible — the Chasers were
throwing the Quaffle to one another so fast that Bagman only had time to say
their names. Harry spun the slow dial on the right of his Omnioculars again,
pressed the play-by-play button on the top, and he was immediately watching
in slow motion, while glittering purple lettering flashed across the lenses and
the noise of the crowd pounded against his eardrums.
Hawkshead Attacking Formation, he read as he watched the three Irish
Chasers zoom closely together, Troy in the center, slightly ahead of Mullet
and Moran, bearing down upon the Bulgarians. Porskoff Ploy flashed up next,
as Troy made as though to dart upward with the Quaffle, drawing away the
Bulgarian Chaser Ivanova and dropping the Quaffle to Moran. One of the
Bulgarian Beaters, Volkov, swung hard at a passing Bludger with his small
club, knocking it into Moran’s path; Moran ducked to avoid the Bludger and
dropped the Quaffle; and Levski, soaring beneath, caught it —
“TROY SCORES!” roared Bagman, and the stadium shuddered with a roar
of applause and cheers. “Ten zero to Ireland!”
“What?” Harry yelled, looking wildly around through his Omnioculars.
“But Levski’s got the Quaffle!”
“Harry, if you’re not going to watch at normal speed, you’re going to miss
things!” shouted Hermione, who was dancing up and down, waving her arms
in the air while Troy did a lap of honor around the field. Harry looked quickly
over the top of his Omnioculars and saw that the leprechauns watching from
the sidelines had all risen into the air again and formed the great, glittering
shamrock. Across the field, the veela were watching them sulkily.
Furious with himself, Harry spun his speed dial back to normal as play
resumed.
Harry knew enough about Quidditch to see that the Irish Chasers were
superb. They worked as a seamless team, their movements so well
coordinated that they appeared to be reading one another’s minds as they
positioned themselves, and the rosette on Harry’s chest kept squeaking their
names: “Troy — Mullet — Moran!” And within ten minutes, Ireland had
scored twice more, bringing their lead to thirty–zero and causing a thunderous
tide of roars and applause from the green-clad supporters.
The match became still faster, but more brutal. Volkov and Vulchanov, the
Bulgarian Beaters, were whacking the Bludgers as fiercely as possible at the
Irish Chasers, and were starting to prevent them from using some of their best
moves; twice they were forced to scatter, and then, finally, Ivanova managed
to break through their ranks; dodge the Keeper, Ryan; and score Bulgaria’s
first goal.
“Fingers in your ears!” bellowed Mr. Weasley as the veela started to dance
in celebration. Harry screwed up his eyes too; he wanted to keep his mind on
the game. After a few seconds, he chanced a glance at the field. The veela had
stopped dancing, and Bulgaria was again in possession of the Quaffle.
“Dimitrov! Levski! Dimitrov! Ivanova — oh I say!” roared Bagman.
One hundred thousand wizards gasped as the two Seekers, Krum and
Lynch, plummeted through the center of the Chasers, so fast that it looked as
though they had just jumped from airplanes without parachutes. Harry
followed their descent through his Omnioculars, squinting to see where the
Snitch was —
“They’re going to crash!” screamed Hermione next to Harry.
She was half right — at the very last second, Viktor Krum pulled out of the
dive and spiraled off. Lynch, however, hit the ground with a dull thud that
could be heard throughout the stadium. A huge groan rose from the Irish
seats.
“Fool!” moaned Mr. Weasley. “Krum was feinting!”
“It’s time-out!” yelled Bagman’s voice, “as trained mediwizards hurry onto
the field to examine Aidan Lynch!”
“He’ll be okay, he only got ploughed!” Charlie said reassuringly to Ginny,
who was hanging over the side of the box, looking horror-struck. “Which is
what Krum was after, of course. . . .”
Harry hastily pressed the replay and play-by-play buttons on his
Omnioculars, twiddled the speed dial, and put them back up to his eyes.
He watched as Krum and Lynch dived again in slow motion. Wronski
Defensive Feint — dangerous Seeker diversion read the shining purple
lettering across his lenses. He saw Krum’s face contorted with concentration
as he pulled out of the dive just in time, while Lynch was flattened, and he
understood — Krum hadn’t seen the Snitch at all, he was just making Lynch
copy him. Harry had never seen anyone fly like that; Krum hardly looked as
though he was using a broomstick at all; he moved so easily through the air
that he looked unsupported and weightless. Harry turned his Omnioculars
back to normal and focused them on Krum. He was now circling high above
Lynch, who was being revived by mediwizards with cups of potion. Harry,
focusing still more closely upon Krum’s face, saw his dark eyes darting all
over the ground a hundred feet below. He was using the time while Lynch was
revived to look for the Snitch without interference.
Lynch got to his feet at last, to loud cheers from the green-clad supporters,
mounted his Firebolt, and kicked back off into the air. His revival seemed to
give Ireland new heart. When Mostafa blew his whistle again, the Chasers
moved into action with a skill unrivaled by anything Harry had seen so far.
After fifteen more fast and furious minutes, Ireland had pulled ahead by ten
more goals. They were now leading by one hundred and thirty points to ten,
and the game was starting to get dirtier.
As Mullet shot toward the goalposts yet again, clutching the Quaffle tightly
under her arm, the Bulgarian Keeper, Zograf, flew out to meet her. Whatever
happened was over so quickly Harry didn’t catch it, but a scream of rage from
the Irish crowd, and Mostafa’s long, shrill whistle blast, told him it had been a
foul.
“And Mostafa takes the Bulgarian Keeper to task for cobbing — excessive
use of elbows!” Bagman informed the roaring spectators. “And — yes, it’s a
penalty to Ireland!”
The leprechauns, who had risen angrily into the air like a swarm of
glittering hornets when Mullet had been fouled, now darted together to form
the words “HA, HA, HA!” The veela on the other side of the field leapt to
their feet, tossed their hair angrily, and started to dance again.
As one, the Weasley boys and Harry stuffed their fingers into their ears, but
Hermione, who hadn’t bothered, was soon tugging on Harry’s arm. He turned
to look at her, and she pulled his fingers impatiently out of his ears.
“Look at the referee!” she said, giggling.
Harry looked down at the field. Hassan Mostafa had landed right in front of
the dancing veela, and was acting very oddly indeed. He was flexing his
muscles and smoothing his mustache excitedly.
“Now, we can’t have that!” said Ludo Bagman, though he sounded highly
amused. “Somebody slap the referee!”
A mediwizard came tearing across the field, his fingers stuffed into his own
ears, and kicked Mostafa hard in the shins. Mostafa seemed to come to
himself; Harry, watching through the Omnioculars again, saw that he looked
exceptionally embarrassed and had started shouting at the veela, who had
stopped dancing and were looking mutinous.
“And unless I’m much mistaken, Mostafa is actually attempting to send off
the Bulgarian team mascots!” said Bagman’s voice. “Now there’s something
we haven’t seen before. . . . Oh, this could turn nasty. . . .”
It did: The Bulgarian Beaters, Volkov and Vulchanov, landed on either side
of Mostafa and began arguing furiously with him, gesticulating toward the
leprechauns, who had now gleefully formed the words “HEE, HEE, HEE.”
Mostafa was not impressed by the Bulgarians’ arguments, however; he was
jabbing his finger into the air, clearly telling them to get flying again, and
when they refused, he gave two short blasts on his whistle.
“Two penalties for Ireland!” shouted Bagman, and the Bulgarian crowd
howled with anger. “And Volkov and Vulchanov had better get back on those
brooms . . . yes . . . there they go . . . and Troy takes the Quaffle . . .”
Play now reached a level of ferocity beyond anything they had yet seen.
The Beaters on both sides were acting without mercy: Volkov and Vulchanov
in particular seemed not to care whether their clubs made contact with
Bludger or human as they swung them violently through the air. Dimitrov
shot straight at Moran, who had the Quaffle, nearly knocking her off her
broom.
“Foul!” roared the Irish supporters as one, all standing up in a great wave
of green.
“Foul!” echoed Ludo Bagman’s magically magnified voice. “Dimitrov
skins Moran — deliberately flying to collide there — and it’s got to be
another penalty — yes, there’s the whistle!”
The leprechauns had risen into the air again, and this time, they formed a
giant hand, which was making a very rude sign indeed at the veela across the
field. At this, the veela lost control. Instead of dancing, they launched
themselves across the field and began throwing what seemed to be handfuls
of fire at the leprechauns. Watching through his Omnioculars, Harry saw that
they didn’t look remotely beautiful now. On the contrary, their faces were
elongating into sharp, cruel-beaked bird heads, and long, scaly wings were
bursting from their shoulders —
“And that, boys,” yelled Mr. Weasley over the tumult of the crowd below,
“is why you should never go for looks alone!”
Ministry wizards were flooding onto the field to separate the veela and the
leprechauns, but with little success; meanwhile, the pitched battle below was
nothing to the one taking place above. Harry turned this way and that, staring
through his Omnioculars, as the Quaffle changed hands with the speed of a
bullet.
“Levski — Dimitrov — Moran — Troy — Mullet — Ivanova — Moran
again — Moran — MORAN SCORES!”
But the cheers of the Irish supporters were barely heard over the shrieks of
the veela, the blasts now issuing from the Ministry members’ wands, and the
furious roars of the Bulgarians. The game recommenced immediately; now
Levski had the Quaffle, now Dimitrov —
The Irish Beater Quigley swung heavily at a passing Bludger, and hit it as
hard as possible toward Krum, who did not duck quickly enough. It hit him
full in the face.
There was a deafening groan from the crowd; Krum’s nose looked broken,
there was blood everywhere, but Hassan Mostafa didn’t blow his whistle. He
had become distracted, and Harry couldn’t blame him; one of the veela had
thrown a handful of fire and set his broom tail alight.
Harry wanted someone to realize that Krum was injured; even though he
was supporting Ireland, Krum was the most exciting player on the field. Ron
obviously felt the same.
“Time-out! Ah, come on, he can’t play like that, look at him —”
“Look at Lynch!” Harry yelled.
For the Irish Seeker had suddenly gone into a dive, and Harry was quite
sure that this was no Wronski Feint; this was the real thing. . . .
“He’s seen the Snitch!” Harry shouted. “He’s seen it! Look at him go!”
Half the crowd seemed to have realized what was happening; the Irish
supporters rose in another great wave of green, screaming their Seeker on . . .
but Krum was on his tail. How he could see where he was going, Harry had
no idea; there were flecks of blood flying through the air behind him, but he
was drawing level with Lynch now as the pair of them hurtled toward the
ground again —
“They’re going to crash!” shrieked Hermione.
“They’re not!” roared Ron.
“Lynch is!” yelled Harry.
